A what is up everybody this is Jason with death slopes dot com.
And in this video we are going to cover backgrounds and borders in CSSA.
So let's hop to it.
All right.
So we've already learned that with backgrounds we can add a color or a gradient.
Now when we use the term background it's a shorthand for a bunch of other background options that we
may have.
Let me let me show you an example.
So above your container here let's create some space and at the top here what we're going to do is grab
the body tag.
All right.
The body element.
Now when we began typing in the word background you can see that background is a shorthand term but
it also gives us a list of all these other different types of backgrounds we can use such as the background
attachment clip color background image orange position background size.
I mean this is a list of stuff that we can use now when we use the shorthand version of background we
got to know the syntax the value that you can add to the other side of this.
All right.
But however when you use a more specified version of the background property it will kind to give you
some helpers of what kind of values you can throw in there.
So we've got our body selected.
Why don't we go ahead and add a background image to this and we're going to there's a few different
options we can use to add an image.
And I'm going to use the you are L..
All right.
And then go ahead and close that off.
So let's go grab an image now so come into your browser here.
Make this full screen for us and just search for something appropriate.
All right now I'm going to type in minimal zebra background.
All right.
And let's go into images.
I'm just going to grab this first Sieber one here.
That looks pretty good.
And we can see the dimensions is a 600 by 375.
So it's kind of a smaller image but when you're looking for an image I want you to find a smaller image
because I'm going to show you how to work with that.
OK.
So I'm going to go ahead and right click on this save as and I'm going to throw it into my project right
here.
OK.
And I'm going to change the name to just zebra.
And no I do not have rights to this image.
Do not use it commercially unless it says so.
All right so we've got the zebra in our projects.
I'm going to go back here and inside the background image you are l.
I'm going to type in zebra and it's grabbing the zebra because I've just cut it at a top level over
here.
All right so perfect so we've got that in there.
Let's go ahead and see what this looks like.
Going to go ahead and launch the browser here.
Cool.
Well that didn't work as expected or I mean it is taking zebra and it's stamping it all over the place.
Now the reason it's doing this is because we grabbed a smaller image right.
And the browser because it's a specific image size it's filling up the extra space so it doesn't.
So the browser doesn't leave all this white space with it the browser doesn't know what to do with this
exactly.
So let's come over to brackets and go ahead and get the container out of the way just take the content
and I'm pressing command option forward slash just commenting get it out and let's use it a few other
background properties that we can use to help us with this.
So first we saw that our background image was repeating right.
So we can do background repeat property and then it comes with a few different options for us and we're
going to click the no repeat.
All right save that and then let's check it out.
Well cool.
It's not repeating anymore because we told it so the browser is now just giving us one image.
It's not repeating it.
But check this out it's left out this empty white space.
All right so let's learn about another background property back over into brackets right under the background
Rippy.
Let's type in background size OK.
And then we're going to use cover and this.
Now when you're working with a background size this is specific to working with a background image OK.
You can't like set a background size of height or width of anything else that it directly targets the
image that you're working with on the element.
OK.
So let's come back over to here and that looks better.
Right now we've got our image covering the entire viewport of the browser.
Now when you're wanting to use an image as a background to your Web site or your web app do use an image
that has the appropriate dimensions.
Go ahead and resize it you something in high definition.
This was a smaller image and we stretch it out over the viewport.
You can see how fuzzy that it's become.
All right so cool.
That is background's you can use background's for colors and then you can also set backgrounds for images.
All right.
And you can take these background properties here and you could add these two additional elements like
if I had a container and wanted a background to this specific container or a section of my website you
can add a background property to this.
All right so again you can use this shorthand background property and then you come up with the appropriate
value that you can add to it or you can be a little bit more specific in the Bactrim property that you
want to use.
So moving forward.
Let's go ahead and start working with borders.
All right.
So let's come down here.
So we're in our container outside of our container.
Why don't we go ahead and create another div tag here and close that off.
And then inside of here we're just going to throw an image.
So go do an image and we'll give it a source leave it empty for now and then we're going to add a class
onto this.
And I'm just going to type in a border image.
OK.
Awesome So let's go ahead and go grab an image for this and I'm going to come up here like the minimal
stuff so minimal I can.
All right and then let's pop over to images and I'm going to use this one right here.
It's a 400 by 300.
So it's not going to take up my entire web page here.
I'm going to do save image as and again throw this into your project whatever image you decide to use.
And perfect so that's saved.
So back over to brackets inside the image right here in the source.
Let's go ahead and add that image in there.
All right.
So we've added our image and let's check it out make sure it's loading.
Perfect.
So we've got our image right here.
Let's go ahead and work with some borders and different ways that we can use these.
All right.
So come over here we're going to grab the image class that we have.
OK the border image.
And then inside here let me add some space below this so we can see what we're working with here.
So just like using the background property we can use the shorthand for border K and then we can go
ahead and add our value in here and now when you saw this there you can use the shorthand border property
or you can get a little bit more specific like border bottom.
We have colors we have radiuses here we have border styles Whit's collapse colors images border the
left colors.
Tons of stuff right.
We have tons of stuff.
And in this case what I'm going to do is I want to add a border to every single side of this image.
So I'm just going to use the standard shorthand border property so to use a border to add a value we
need to first set the width of the border OK and we can do that with pixels.
So I'm going to set a two pixel with to my border.
Right now we need to define what kind of border we want to use.
And the first one we're going to use as a solid.
All right.
And then the third value that we're going to throw in here is a color.
And let's just use red.
So it shows up easily.
So we've got a border and this is going to put a two pixel radius around the entire thing.
Top right left and bottom we're giving it a solid border of color red.
Let's check that out.
Cool.
So you can see that we've got a red border here.
Very cool.
Now let me show you this.
We could be specific here and just do like a border Right.
And what this is going to do is it's going to add a two pixel solid red border to the right of our image.
Now and we've got that over here.
All right.
I'm going to actually go ahead and make this a little bit thicker so we can see it.
Let's do 10 pixels.
All right so now we've got a thicker border that we can work with and we can also change this value
from a solid.
All right.
We can use a dotted value which is going to give us a dotted line here and then we can also use a dashed
value there and we're going to go ahead and throw this around the entire thing.
All right.
Pretty simple stuff right.
Very very easy.
And that wraps up this lesson we have learned how to use colors and images with backgrounds in addition
to gradients.
And then we've also learned how to use borders and the different ways that we can style them so that's
a wrap.
Let's move on.